---
date: 2011-09-10
title: Installing PostgreSQL for Rails 3.1 on Lion
---

*Instructions for installing and configuring PostgreSQL on a fresh Lion installation for use in Rails 3.1*

I recently tried to generate a new Rails 3.1 application based on PostgreSQL on a fresh installation of Lion, and ran into a nasty permission denied issue.  

After piecing together the full solution, I thought a blog post might be helpful for anyone else attempting the same task.  The overview of the problem is that Lion now ships with a PostgreSQL server, so you have to jump through a couple of hoops if you want to use the one provided by "Homebrew":http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew/.

h3. Problem!

I started by installing PostgreSQL through Homebrew:

@@@
# brew install postgresql
# initdb /usr/local/var/postgres
# mkdir -p ~/Library/LaunchAgents
# cp /usr/local/Cellar/postgresql/9.0.4/org.postgresql.postgres.plist ~/Library/LaunchAgents/
# launchctl load -w ~/Library/LaunchAgents/org.postgresql.postgres.plist
@@@

And then I generated a new Rails 3.1 application, configured to use the PostgreSQL adapter:

@@@
# rails new myapp -D postgresql
  ...bunch of stuff...
  run bundle install (which installs the pg gem)
@@@

I started to see signs of woe when the PostgreSQL commandline tools failed:

@@@
createuser myapp -s
createuser: could not connect to database postgres: could not connect to server: Permission denied
    Is the server running locally and accepting
    connections on Unix domain socket "/var/pgsql_socket/.s.PGSQL.5432"?
@@@

...and, when seeing this in the logs after starting the rails server:

@@@
PGError (could not connect to server: Permission denied
	Is the server running locally and accepting
	connections on Unix domain socket "/var/pgsql_socket/.s.PGSQL.5432"?
):
@@@

h3. Solution!

Well, I figured out the problem after a bunch of googling.  Turns out I had two PostgreSQL servers stomping on each other.  The solution is two simple steps, *but the order is important*!

Step one: update the path to give preference to the Homebrew PostgreSQL installation.  My @$PATH@ statement in my @.bashrc@ looked like this:

@@@
PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/bin
@@@

But @/usr/local/bin@ needs to be first:

@@@
PATH=/usr/local/bin:$PATH
@@@

Now @createuser@ works (since we're calling the right one), but that won't fix the rails server connection issue. Turns out @pg@ saw the system server when we installed it.  So the second step is simply to reinstall @pg@:

@@@
gem uninstall pg
gem install pg
@@@

And life was again happy.

Much love to "the Stack Overflow conversation":http://stackoverflow.com/questions/6770649/repairing-postgresql-after-upgrading-to-osx-10-7-lion that suggested most of this solution. 
