h1. About Me

I'm an experienced developer living in San Francisco, and working as an independent Agile and Ruby on Rails consultant.  

I wrote the "Shoulda":http://thoughtbot.com/projects/shoulda testing framework, which at last count was in use by about 15% of the Ruby community.   I was also the primary developer and project manager for Thoughtbot's fantastic "Hoptoad service":http://hoptoadapp.com, and am currently co-authoring Addison Wesley's "Rails AntiPatterns":http://my.safaribooksonline.com/9780321620293 with "Chad Pytel":http://thoughtbot.com/about/people#cpytel.

I've also "spoken extensively":/pages/speaking at various Ruby and Rails conferences.

In previous lives I've done AI programming for the NCSA and the University of Illinois, and systems administration for Citysearch.com and Caltech’s Earthquake Detection Network.

h2(#accolades). Recommendations

bq.  Great to work with, intelligent feedback, exceptional quality. - %(citation)"Matt Todd":http://www.workingwithrails.com/person/7298-matt-todd of "Highgroove Studios":http://highgroove.com/ via "WWR":http://www.workingwithrails.com/recommendation/for/person/7844-tammer-saleh%

bq. Tammer is a top-notch developer, project manager, scotch afficionado, and all-around awesome dude. - %(citation)"Jason Morrison":http://www.workingwithrails.com/person/2371 of "Thoughtbot":http://thoughtbot.com via "WWR":http://www.workingwithrails.com/recommendation/for/person/7844-tammer-saleh%

bq. Tammer has the extreme attention to detail and right kind of obsession with quality that most people have to lie about on their resumes. As someone you can learn from everyday, he is both a pleasure and an asset to have as a colleague. - %(citation)"Floyd Wright":http://www.linkedin.com/profile?viewProfile=&key=7315120 via "LinkedIn":http://www.linkedin.com/profile?viewProfile=&key=6604740#recommendations%

bq. Tammer has a seemingly relentless passion for excellent software practices, and an exacting eye for both others' work and his own. He comes packed with energy and focus, and is constantly looking for ways to improve himself. I've benefited directly from Tammer's assistance and advice, and will make sure I continue to do so. - %(citation)"Eric Mill":http://www.mill-industries.com/ of "Sunlight Labs":http://sunlightlabs.com/ via "LinkedIn":http://www.linkedin.com/profile?viewProfile=&key=6604740#recommendations%

bq. Tammer was the guy at Caltech who could cut through the BS and get stuff done. He was very knowledgeable in the sys admin domain and kept the network together and improved it during his tenure at Caltech and left a legacy roadmap that was followed after he left. - %(citation)"Paul Friberg":http://www.linkedin.com/pub/6/a88/835, owner of "ISTI":http://www.isti.com/about via "LinkedIn":http://www.linkedin.com/profile?viewProfile=&key=6604740#recommendations%

bq. Tammer was a great guy to work with. He was the brains behind Carbon Rally and other cool projects at Thoughtbot. - %(citation)"Jason Martinez":http://www.linkedin.com/pub/6/5b2/6a9 of "ELC Technologies":http://www.elctech.com/ via "LinkedIn":http://www.linkedin.com/profile?viewProfile=&key=6604740#recommendations%

bq. A great and intelligent guy. Clearly an excellent coder. - %(citation)"Martin Emde":http://www.workingwithrails.com/person/5657-martin-emde of "Naughty America":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naughty_America via "WWR":http://www.workingwithrails.com/recommendation/for/person/7844-tammer-saleh%

bq. Tammer is awesome. I shoulda tried shoulda a long time ago. (I bet you've never heard that before ;) - %(citation)"Steven A Bristol":http://www.workingwithrails.com/person/6290-steven-a-bristol, owner of "Less Everything":http://lesseverything.com/ via "WWR":http://www.workingwithrails.com/recommendation/for/person/7844-tammer-saleh%

bq. Quality guy and talented to boot. - %(citation)"Jim Remsik":http://www.workingwithrails.com/person/9803-jim-remsik of "Hashrocket":http://hashrocket.com via "WWR":http://www.workingwithrails.com/recommendation/for/person/7844-tammer-saleh%

bq. Tammer has the mind and drive for writing disciplined, high-quality Ruby code. - %(citation)"Dan Croak":http://www.workingwithrails.com/person/1991-dan-croak of "Thoughtbot":http://thoughtbot.com via "WWR":http://www.workingwithrails.com/recommendation/for/person/7844-tammer-saleh%

...and, of course...

bq. You're the werewolf! - %(citation)"Ezra Zygmuntowicz":http://www.workingwithrails.com/person/5421-ezra-zygmuntowicz, founder of "Engine Yard":http://engineyard.com/ via "WWR":http://www.workingwithrails.com/recommendation/for/person/7844-tammer-saleh%

h2. Resume

While I don't maintain a formal resume, my "LinkedIn profile":http://www.linkedin.com/in/tammersaleh is fairly complete and up to date.

h2. Contact

You can get in touch with me by emailing me at "tsaleh@gmail.com":mailto:tsaleh@gmail.com, or by calling me at (626) 841-0708.

