---
title: CTO vs VP Engineering
date: 2014-01-20 16:42 PST
description: The difference between the responsibilities of a Chief Technical Officer and a Vice President of Engineering.
---

> What's the difference between a CTO and a VP Engineering?
> - People, all over the place.

I get this question a lot.  The biggest misconception is that it's about the money - that VPE is just a step towards being a CTO, a run in the ladder.  This is entirely wrong, and it's a mistake that hurts companies and employees.  The differences between the two roles, and the type of person that excels in each, is huge.

http://media.nj.com/entertainment_impact_tv/photo/da31bjpg-4dfccdb22f1d55f8.jpg

### CTO

A CTO is more of an outward facing role.  CTOs are generally tasked with setting the technical vision of a company and evangelizing that vision to the rest of the world.  A good CTO has vision and charisma, and should be expected to speak regularly to both the internal team, and at external conferences.

Remember: CTO's Don't Lead Teams.

Having experience as a VPE before becoming a CTO is helpful, but completely unnecessary.

### VP Engineering

A VPE, on the other hand, is a much more hands-on and tactical role.  VPEs are responsible for ensuring that the engineering team continues to hum along at a good pace.  They guide the technical architecture of the product, the team organization, and short-to-medium-term technology direction.

A good VPE can lead teams of hundreds of developers.

CEO vs COO

http://www.bothsidesofthetable.com/2010/04/19/want-to-know-the-difference-between-a-cto-and-a-vp-engineering/

Of course, these lines blur all the time, and many companies hire for one when they actually want the other.

