---
date: 2009-10-27
title: Automatically generate Heroku .gems file
---

One of the greatest parts of "Heroku":http://heroku.com is that it takes care of installing your gems for you.  No more @/vendor/gems@, missing spec files, painful upgrades, etc.  In fact, no more @/vendor/rails@, either.  A large number of gems are preinstalled for your dyno, and those are listed at "http://installed-gems.heroku.com":http://installed-gems.heroku.com.  If you have any gems not listed there, then you just have to list them in your @RAILS_ROOT/.gems@ file:

@@@ gems
ambethia-smtp-tls --version '>= 1.1.2' --source http://gems.github.com
mislav-will_paginate --version '>= 2.3.11' --source http://gems.github.com
thoughtbot-paperclip --version '>= 2.3.1' --source http://gems.github.com
josevalim-inherited_resources --version '>= 0.8.5' --source http://gems.github.com
justinfrench-formtastic --version '>= 0.2.2' --source http://gems.github.com
authlogic --version '>= 2.1.1'
@@@

h2. The problem.

This can become a bit of a pain, in terms of keeping your @.gems@ file in sync with the @config.gems@ declarations in your @environment.rb@ file.  Luckily, "Mark Dodwell":http://www.mkdynamic.co.uk/ posted a "little rake task":http://blog.madeofcode.com/post/194902314/generate-gem-yml-and-gems-for-rails to produce your @.gems@ file automatically.

h2. The improved solution.

I've gone ahead and added a small improvement to that task.  The version below will ping "http://installed-gems.heroku.com":http://installed-gems.heroku.com and only write out the gems you need that aren't already installed there.  Just put this snippet into @lib/tasks/heroku_gems.rake@:

@@@ ruby
namespace :gems do
  desc "Generate .gems file for Heroku"
  task :heroku_spec => :environment do
    require 'open-uri'
    installed_gems = []
    url = "http://installed-gems.heroku.com/"
    open(url).read.scan(/<li>(\w+) [^<]*<\/li>/) do |w| 
      installed_gems << w.first
    end

    gems = Rails.configuration.gems
    
    # output .gems
    dot_gems = File.join(RAILS_ROOT, ".gems")
    File.open(dot_gems, "w") do |f|
      output = []
      gems.each do |gem|
        next if installed_gems.include?(gem.name)
        spec = "#{gem.name} --version '#{gem.version_requirements.to_s}'"
        spec << " --source #{gem.source}" if gem.source
        output << spec
      end
      f.write output.join("\n")
      puts output.join("\n")
    end
  end
end
@@@
