---
date: 2007-08-15
title: Highrise to LDAP Gateway
---

<i>Cross posted from "Giant Robots":http://giantrobots.thoughtbot.com</i>

*WARNING:*  Developed as a proof of concept in about 5 hours.  Use with caution.

Adapted from the "ldap-activerecord-server":http://thoughtbot.com/projects/ldap-ar-gateway for its "RailsConf 2007 presentation":http://thoughtbot.com/assets/angels_and_daemons.pdf, this application will proxy your Highrise contacts as LDAP entries.  Once you have this installed and running on a local server, you can point OS X's Addressbook (or Outlook, Thunderbird, etc.) at it and get autocomplety goodness in your local mail client.

h3. Quick instructions:

# Download via svn at http://svn.thoughtbot.com/highrise-ldap-proxy
# Figure out your highrise API url

  * Click on 'My Info' in Highrise
  * Click on 'Reveal authentication token for feeds/API' under 'User account'.  That will give you a key like @99531bd29aabd9bc9a09d04a60a97@
  * Combine that with your highrise url like such:
    @http://99531bd29aabd9bc9a09d04a60a97:X@tammersaleh.highrisehq.com/@ (Yes, X.  Those 37signals dudes are wacky)
# Edit the conf/ldap-config.yml file, primarily to set the right Highrise API url
# run @bin/ldap-server.rb start@ and check the log file for problems.

Now point your ldap server at localhost:1390 (or whatever host/port combination you're configured for) and view your Highrise contacts in your addressbook.

Here's a screenshot of my OS X Addressbook configuration:

%addressbook_screenshot.jpg%

...And one of Addressbook doin' it's thang:

%addressbook_screenshot2.jpg%

Comments and patches are more than welcome, but please keep in mind that this was really just produced as a proof of concept.

