---
date: 2009-12-04
title: Master May I?
---

_This is an announcement for a new authorization gem I've released named *Master May I*.  There's extensive documentation on the "rdoc.info":http://rdoc.info/projects/tsaleh/master-may-i site, but here's the quick and dirty._

h2.  The Lowdown

"Master May I":http://gemcutter.org/gems/master_may_i is a simple authorization gem that works hand in hand with "Authlogic":http://gemcutter.org/gems/authlogic and "InheritedResources":http://gemcutter.org/gems/inherited_resources.

I extracted and combined this code from a few of my existing projects.  All of the other authorization systems I've seen were either far too complex, poorly coded, or too inflexible for my needs.

*Master May I* is *not* an Access Control List system.  In fact, it has absolutely no opinions about how you structure your underlying business rules.  *All it does is gives you a consistent and flexible pattern for accessing those rules.*  

_By the by, in all of the applications I've worked on as a consultant, I've seen two that actually required the complexity of ACLs._

There are two main components:

h2.  The Model Layer

*Master May I* hooks into @ActiveRecord@ in order to add a set of default authorization accessors to all of your models:

* @@Model.creatable_by?(user)@ and @Model.creatable?@
* @@model.readable_by?(user)@ and @@model.readable?@
* @@model.editable_by?(user)@ and @@model.editable?@
* @@model.destroyable_by?(user)@ and @@model.destroyable?@

_The latter methods just delegate to the former, passing in the currently logged in user._

This is just an application of the "Template Pattern":http://tammersaleh.com/posts/the-template-pattern-is-underused.   The authorization query methods are all hardcoded to just return @true@ by default, and can be easily overridden in your models to implement whatever business logic you need.

@@@ ruby
class Note < ActiveRecord::Base
  def self.creatable_by?(user)
    user and user.administrator?
  end
end
@@@

Now, instead of checking for @logged_in? && current_user.notes.include?(note)@ in your views and before filters, you just check @note.editable?@  Much simpler, and much more DRY.

Because the concept of a "creating user" is so common, *Master May I* includes a class method for recording that user when the record is created:

@@@ ruby
class Note < ActiveRecord::Base
  records_creating_user :as => :owner

  def editable_by?(user)
    return false unless user
    user.administrator? or created_by?(user)
  end
end

@note = Note.create               # Inside the controller
@note.owner                       => User record set via Authlogic session
@note.editable_by?(@note.owner)   => true
@note.editable_by?(nil)           => false
@note.editable_by?(other_user)    => false
@@@

h2.  The Controller Layer

If you include the @MasterMayI::ControllerExtensions@ module in your @ApplicationController@, *Master May I* will also add some useful helpers:

* @current_user@
* @deny_access(opts = {})@
* @logged_in?@
* @redirect_back_or(url)@
* @require_user@
* ...and a few more.  See them all "in the documentation.":http://rdoc.info/projects/tsaleh/master-may-i

*Master May I* will also include the @protects_restful_actions@ controller class method, which integrates with InheritedResources in order to automatically check with the model in a set of
before filters.

@@@ ruby
class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
  include MasterMayI::ControllerExtensions
  ...
end

class NotesController < InheritedResources::Base
  protects_restful_actions
end
@@@

h2.  Testing with Shoulda

Master May I comes with a strong set of Shoulda macros:

...for your unit tests...

@@@ ruby
class NoteTest < ActiveSupport::TestCase
  setup :activate_authlogic

  should_record_creating_user :as => "user"

  should_be_creatable_by("boy named sue-create") { Factory(:user, :username => "sue-create")  }
  should_not_be_creatable_by("everyone")         { nil }

  context "a note" do
    setup { @note = Factory(:note) }
    subject { @note }

    should_be_readable_by("boy named sue-read")       { Factory(:user, :username => "sue-read")    }
    should_be_editable_by("boy named sue-edit")       { Factory(:user, :username => "sue-edit")    }
    should_be_destroyable_by("boy named sue-destroy") { Factory(:user, :username => "sue-destroy") }

    should_not_be_readable_by(   "everyone") { nil }
    should_not_be_editable_by(   "everyone") { nil }
    should_not_be_destroyable_by("everyone") { nil }
  end
end
@@@

...and for your functional tests...

@@@ ruby
class NotesControllerTest < ActionController::TestCase
  setup :activate_authlogic

  as_a_logged_in_user do
    who_can_manage :notes do
      context "on GET to /notes/new" do
        setup { get :new }
        should_not_set_the_flash
        should_render_template :new
      end
      ...
@@@

h2.  Wait, the models can see the signed in user?

Yep.  If enough people have issues with this, I'll pen up another post defending that decision.  Personally, I believe it makes complete sense within MVC.
