---
date: 2010-04-04
title: The Modern Vim Config with Pathogen
---

Unix gets a "whole lot right":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy#Eric_Raymond, but the way it dumps everything into the same filesystem isn't one of them.   Traditionally, every application you install will put files under @/etc@, @/usr/bin@, @/var@, @/lib@, and so on.  This makes it impossible to confidently extract an installed application, and lead to the development of "various":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RPM_Package_Manager "package":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Debian#APT.2C_installing_packages_from_online_repositories "management":http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew/ "tools":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Encap_Package_Management_System.

h4. Vim's legacy

Unfortunately, Vim inherited that original philosophy.  "Terribly misguided attempts have been made in the past":http://www.installationwiki.org/Installing_Vim_Scripts to create a package management system for Vim plugins.  The Vimball format is particularly painful - non-standard file format, unusable from the commandline, and all files dropped under @~/.vim@ willy-nilly.

h4. Pathogen

Thankfully, our hero "Tim Pope":http://tpo.pe/ has penned "pathogen.vim":http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=2332 - a sane package manager for Vim plugins.  With pathogen, all of your plugins are stored in separate directories under @~/.vim/bundle@:

@@@
~/.vim $ ls bundle 

IndexedSearch     vim-align         vim-rails         vim-surround
gist              vim-cucumber      vim-repeat        vim-tcomment
jquery            vim-fugitive      vim-ruby          vim-vividchalk
nerdtree          vim-git           vim-ruby-debugger
snipmate.vim      vim-haml          vim-shoulda
textile.vim       vim-markdown      vim-supertab
@@@

This means removing a plugin is as simple as deleting that directory.  Just the way it should be. 

h4. Installation

To get started, I recommend moving your @~/.vim@ directory out of the way and starting fresh.  Then make the @~/.vim/autoload@ directory and download the "pathogen.vim":http://github.com/tpope/vim-pathogen/raw/master/autoload/pathogen.vim file there.

@@@
~/.vim master $ ls autoload
pathogen.vim
@@@

Now call pathogen from your @.vimrc@ like such:

@@@
call pathogen#infect()
call pathogen#helptags()
@@@

...and that's it!  This is the only plugin you'll install directly into your @~/.vim@ directory.  After that, any plugin you install into the @~/.vim/bundle@ directory will be seen by vim.  At this point, you can start copying in the contents of your @.vimrc@ and @.gvimrc@ files, taking the time to clean them up as you go.

h4. Automation

To make management of the @bundle@ directory a little easier, I penned up a quick ruby script, which I saved as @~/.vim/update_bundles@.   Running this script will remove all plugins you've installed manually, and will update them to the latest versions.

@@@ ruby
#!/usr/bin/env ruby

git_bundles = [ 
  "git://github.com/astashov/vim-ruby-debugger.git",
  "git://github.com/ervandew/supertab.git",
  "git://github.com/godlygeek/tabular.git",
  "git://github.com/hallison/vim-rdoc.git",
  "git://github.com/msanders/snipmate.vim.git",
  "git://github.com/pangloss/vim-javascript.git",
  "git://github.com/scrooloose/nerdtree.git",
  "git://github.com/timcharper/textile.vim.git",
  "git://github.com/tpope/vim-cucumber.git",
  "git://github.com/tpope/vim-fugitive.git",
  "git://github.com/tpope/vim-git.git",
  "git://github.com/tpope/vim-haml.git",
  "git://github.com/tpope/vim-markdown.git",
  "git://github.com/tpope/vim-rails.git",
  "git://github.com/tpope/vim-repeat.git",
  "git://github.com/tpope/vim-surround.git",
  "git://github.com/tpope/vim-vividchalk.git",
  "git://github.com/tsaleh/taskpaper.vim.git",
  "git://github.com/tsaleh/vim-matchit.git",
  "git://github.com/tsaleh/vim-shoulda.git",
  "git://github.com/tsaleh/vim-tcomment.git",
  "git://github.com/tsaleh/vim-tmux.git",
  "git://github.com/vim-ruby/vim-ruby.git",
  "git://github.com/vim-scripts/Gist.vim.git",
]

vim_org_scripts = [
  ["IndexedSearch", "7062",  "plugin"],
  ["jquery",        "12107", "syntax"],
]

require 'fileutils'
require 'open-uri'

bundles_dir = File.join(File.dirname(__FILE__), "bundle")

FileUtils.cd(bundles_dir)

puts "trashing everything (lookout!)"
Dir["*"].each {|d| FileUtils.rm_rf d }

git_bundles.each do |url|
  dir = url.split('/').last.sub(/\.git$/, '')
  puts "unpacking #{url} into #{dir}"
  `git clone #{url} #{dir}`
  FileUtils.rm_rf(File.join(dir, ".git"))
end

vim_org_scripts.each do |name, script_id, script_type|
  puts "downloading #{name}"
  local_file = File.join(name, script_type, "#{name}.vim")
  FileUtils.mkdir_p(File.dirname(local_file))
  File.open(local_file, "w") do |file|
    file << open("http://www.vim.org/scripts/download_script.php?src_id=#{script_id}").read
  end
end
@@@

This script (and more) is avilable in "my dotfiles repo":https://github.com/tsaleh/dotfiles/blob/master/vim/update_bundles.
