---
date: 2007-09-22
title: Trunk Mephisto, Edge Rails, Piston, and Mongrel.  Oh, My.
---

Here are some notes from my latest endeavor, which was to switch my main site over to mephisto.  I'd read "about using piston to manage local changes to the mephisto code base":http://blog.teksol.info/articles/2007/06/07/using-piston-to-manage-external-applications, and that definitely sounded like the way to go.

*This is not the easiest or fastest way to install Mephisto.*

A lot of the steps below are overkill if you don't need to keep mephisto in your own SVN repo, or if you don't want to manage your themes in your repo.  But this outlines what I think is a solid way of maintaining mephisto in a production environment.

h3. Prerequisites

Make sure you've got the TZinfo gem installed on your production server.  It's a binary gem, so it really shouldn't be frozen into the repository.

<code class="bash"><pre>
gem list tzinfo
</pre></code>

h3. Back on Your Development Machine...

h3. Piston

Piston absolutely rocks for things like this.  By using piston, you can make local changes, save them in SVN, and upgrade around them without blinking.  Much like butter.  I'm using edge mephisto here, because a) I want those plugins, and b) that's just how I roll.

<code class='bash'><pre>
piston import http://svn.techno-weenie.net/projects/mephisto/trunk trunk
svn commit -m 'pistoned mephisto trunk to /trunk'
svn up # keep piston happy
</pre></code>

Everything after this happens under trunk, so...

<code class="bash"><pre>
cd trunk
</pre></code>

h3. Rails

We're also going to use piston to grab rails.  Since we're using edge Mephisto, we've got to stick with edge Rails.

<code class="bash"><pre>
piston import http://dev.rubyonrails.org/svn/rails/trunk vendor/rails
svn commit -m 'froze rails'
svn up # keep piston happy
</pre></code>

As of this writing, edge rails had a bug causing the following error:

<code><pre>
LoadError (Expected /home/tammersaleh/apps/tammersaleh/releases/20070922180713/app/models/assigned_section.rb to define AssignedSection)
</pre></code>

Boooo.  But this is what you face rollin' on edge.  Thanks to piston, it's not a problem.  I've got another blog running on rails release 7420, so we'll downgrade to that:

<code class="bash"><pre>
piston upgrade -r 7420 vendor/rails
svn commit -m 'downgraded rails to 7420'
svn up # I pretty much do this all the time
</pre></code>

h3. TZinfo plugin

Gotta grab the latest version of that...

<code class="bash"><pre>
piston import svn://rubyforge.org/var/svn/tzinfo/trunk vendor/plugins/tzinfo
svn commit -m 'added tzinfo plugin'
svn up 
</pre></code>

h3. Database

Create a config/database.yml file, and configure it with a production db.  It's just the standard rails database.yml, but the contents are completely installation specific.  Once you've created that file:

<code class="bash"><pre>
svn add config/database.yml 
svn commit -m 'configured database'
svn up 
</pre></code>

h3. Default Theme in SVN

We'd like to be able to make changes to our theme from the command line and keep the changes in svn.  So let's do this part of the bootstrap by hand.

<code class="bash"><pre>
svn mkdir themes/site-1
svn cp themes/default themes/site-1/simpla
svn commit -m 'installed default theme'
svn up
</pre></code>

h3. Tweak the svn repository

Make some missing dirs and set ignores.  These probably don't matter if you don't plan on running a development version or running the tests.

<code class="bash"><pre>
mkdir -p log tmp/cache tmp/pids tmp/sessions tmp/sockets tmp/attachment_fu
svn add log tmp
svn propset svn:ignore '*' log
svn propset svn:ignore '*' tmp/cache
svn propset svn:ignore '*' tmp/pids
svn propset svn:ignore '*' tmp/sessions
svn propset svn:ignore '*' tmp/sockets
svn propset svn:ignore '*' tmp/attachment_fu
svn propset svn:ignore 'tmp' test/fixtures
svn commit -m 'added log, tmp, and set ignores'
svn up 
</pre></code>

We're going to be using capistrano, so let's not save our images in the deploy directories -- otherwise they would all go poof with each release.

<code class="bash"><pre>
ln -s system/assets public/
svn add public/assets
svn commit -m 'created assets symlink'
svn up
</pre></code>

h3. Capistrano

Your capistrano setup is going to be environment specific, but otherwise just like any other application you'd deploy.  There's nothing Mephisto-specific here.

<code class="bash"><pre>
svn add config/deploy.rb 
svn commit -m 'configured capistrano'
svn up # why not?
</pre></code>

h3. Mongrel

This is also going to be site-specific, but here's an example @config/mongrel_cluster.yml@ file:

<code class="yaml"><pre>
cwd: /path/to/apps/tammersaleh/current
port: "3110"
environment: production
address: 127.0.0.1
pid_file: log/mongrel.pid
servers: 2
</pre></code>

The port information should match whatever your apache configuration gives you.

<code class="bash"><pre>
svn add config/mongrel_cluster.yml
svn commit -m 'added mongrel cluster config'
</pre></code>

h3. Fixes

If you make the log dir like I did, you'll need to remove the line that tries to create it on the server in the bootstrap task.  Just comment out line 5 in @lib/tasks/bootstrap.rake@ which reads @mkdir_p File.join(RAILS_ROOT, 'log')@.

You'll also have to tell mephisto to load the ActionWebServices.  Edit the environment.rb file, adding the following line right below the @config.load_paths@ definition in the initializer block (line 22 for me):

<code class="ruby"><pre>
config.load_paths += %W(#{RAILS_ROOT}/vendor/rails/actionwebservice/lib)
</pre></code>

h3. Deploy

We need to run that db:bootstrap task before we run migrations.

<code class="bash"><pre>
cap setup
</pre></code>

Now ssh into your account, cd to the rails_root, and run @rake db:bootstrap@.  We also need to create the assets directory.  On the production server, run @mkdir /apps/tammersaleh/shared/system/assets@, replacing tammersaleh with your application name.

Finally, back on your dev machine, run the deploy:

<code class="bash"><pre>
cap cold_deploy
</pre></code>

You should now have a running mephisto installation.  If anything goes wrong, check out the log files under @RAILS_ROOT/log@ and the "Mephisto Forum":http://groups.google.com/group/MephistoBlog.